# Additional Engineering Programs and Opportunities

## Maximizing Academic and Professional Success Program (MAPS)

The goals of the MAPS Program are to improve the retention, academic performance, and professional development of students who are committed to earning a degree from the William States Lee College of Engineering. The MAPS Program serves as a process for transition, as new College of Engineering students establish personal connections; learn, understand, and apply academic success and professional development strategies; and grow in self-confidence and personal independence. The MAPS Program also supports the University Center for Academic Excellence (UCAE) through funding of Peer Assisted Learning (PAL) leaders to provide additional student services for foundational first-year College of Engineering courses.

Assessment results consistently indicate that students who attend seven or more transition coaching sessions earn an average first-semester GPA of 3.20, as compared to non-participants with an average first-semester GPA of 2.70. Additionally, students who attend five or more PAL sessions during a semester for a given course typically earn a final course grade that is one-half, to one full letter grade higher compared to other students. For more details, please visit [osds.charlotte.edu/maps-program/mission](osds.charlotte.edu/maps-program/mission).

## Freshman Learning Community (FLC)

The FLC is home to approximately 200 College of Engineering First-Year students who live, study, and interact in a single residence hall. Students benefit from having similar interests and course schedules. Students have free access to the Creativity Lab, a maker space, in the building. In addition, MAPS peer coaching and tutoring for a variety of First-Year courses are offered. Other events, such as "transition to university life" for new students, engineering site visits, and social activities are also available to participants. For details, visit [osds.charlotte.edu/freshman-learning-community](osds.charlotte.edu/freshman-learning-community).

## Student Leadership Academy

The Leadership Academy is an optional two-year extracurricular program designed to develop the leadership capabilities of College of Engineering students through a series of weekend retreats with other students, faculty, and industry partners. Top industry executives help facilitate specific activities providing current, real-world perspectives on team-building, effective communication, ethics, integrity, emotional intelligence, positive influence, and goal-setting, all characteristics of a successful leader and communicator in business and the community. Selected students who fulfill all requirements of the program receive a transcript notation and a Crucial Conversations Certificate of Completion. For details, visit [osds.charlotte.edu/leadership-academy](osds.charlotte.edu/leadership-academy).

## Engage ME!

The Engage ME! Multicultural Engineers Program is meticulously structured to enhance retention rates and foster a profound sense of belonging among first-generation, first-time-in-college, underrepresented, and minority students within the William States Lee College of Engineering. Engage ME! aims to cultivate a vibrant community among engineering students while providing access to a myriad of resources both within and beyond the college.

This program embodies the principle that every member of our community possesses the full potential to excel in all degree programs offered by the College of Engineering. Through a variety of initiatives including social networking, peer activities, mentoring programs, and outreach events, Engage ME! nurtures academic, social and professional growth.

Furthermore, the program equips students with the tools to identify and seize opportunities for academic and professional success. To learn more about Engage ME! and its comprehensive offerings, please visit the Office of Student Development and Success at osds.charlotte.edu/engage-me/3.

## WE Engage!

WE Engage! supports the academic and professional development of women in engineering, engineering technology and construction management. The program promotes and fosters peer and professional networking among women engineers through interactions that increase the recruitment, retention, graduation, and employment of women studying in the Lee College of Engineering. For details, visit [https://osds.charlotte.edu/osds-programs/we-engage/about-we-engage/](https://osds.charlotte.edu/osds-programs/we-engage/about-we-engage/).

## Experiential Learning and Service Learning Opportunities

Students are encouraged to participate in professional work experiences in support of their academic and career development through the cooperative education, internships and service learning programs offered to students in the College. The College works with the University Career Center to expand experiential learning offerings to enable more students to graduate with career related experience. For more information about experiential learning opportunities, see the University Career Center section of this Catalog and visit [osds.charlotte.edu](osds.charlotte.edu).

## Cooperative Education (Co-op) Program

Students may obtain practical work experience while pursuing their degree by participating in cooperative education whereby a student completes a certain number of work sessions of full-time work experience in industry. Students can begin their co-op work sessions in the spring, summer and/or fall The work experience is under the direction of the student's major department and is closely related to his or her field of study. Program benefits include transcript notation, possible technical elective credit (depending on the student's major), and credit towards the "professional engineering work experience" requirement for licensure to be a Professional Engineer in North Carolina.

To be eligible for the Co-op program, a student must have completed at least 30 credit hours at UNC Charlotte, including a number of specified courses with an overall minimum GPA of 2.50. A transfer student is expected to have completed at least 12 credit hours at UNC Charlotte.

The Co-op student works closely with their academic advisor to ensure a clear path to graduation. Students who participate in Co-op traditionally are more highly recruited at higher starting salaries than other students.

Students interested in learning more about the advantages and opportunities of participating in this program should contact the College's Director for Student Professional Development and Employer Relations or the University Career Center. For details, visit [osds.charlotte.edu](osds.charlotte.edu).

## Domestic Internships

A number of opportunities for internships (either for-credit or not) exist for students at local and regional employers. Internships for College of Engineering students are always paid positions. UNC Charlotte University Career Center defines an Internship as requiring a minimum of 80 work hours which need to be completed in no less than five weeks for one semester. Fall and Spring semester internships are typically part-time. Summer internships may be full- or part-time.

Internships posted by the University Career Center do not routinely offer academic credit. Students can earn credit, when other options are not available, by registering for UCOL 3410 (Career Development Internship). UCOL 3410 allows Junior- and Senior-level students to earn one to three hours of elective credit, depending on criteria set by the employer and the University Career Center in consultation with the student's major department. Approval for enrollment must be arranged before the student begins the work experience.

Students interested in learning more about the advantages and opportunities of participating in this program should contact the College's Director for Student Professional Development and Employer Relations or the University Career Center. For details, visit [osds.charlotte.edu](osds.charlotte.edu).

## International Experiences

The College provides opportunities for overseas study, research, and/or an industrial experience. In many cases, students who meet eligibility requirements receive special scholarships and/or grants to help defray the cost of these programs.

## Fundamentals of Engineering (FE) Exam

The first step in professional licensure is the FE exam. Students in ABET accredited programs may take the FE Exam at any time. The College encourages students to take and successfully pass this national examination during their Senior year. For details, visit [pd.charlotte.edu/licensure](pd.charlotte.edu/licensure).

###### Continuing Engineering Studies

The College of Engineering sponsors various special educational programs for practicing engineers, technologists, technicians, and others, in addition to its regular academic degree programs and courses. These include conferences, short courses, seminars, and other continuing education programs designed to aid those practicing in technical professions and occupations to keep abreast of the latest developments in the rapidly expanding technology. For more information, visit the School of Professional Studies at [professional.charlotte.edu](professional.charlotte.edu).
