# The William States Lee College of Engineering

**engr.charlotte.edu**

The William States Lee College of Engineering transforms lives,
communities, and industries through student-centered applied learning,
powerful partnerships, and research that solves complex problems that
focuses on impacting society.

The Lee College of Engineering offers Baccalaureate degree programs in
Engineering, Engineering Technology, and Construction Management.  The
College offers master's degree programs in Engineering, Construction and
Facilities Engineering, Applied Energy and Electromechanical
Engineering, Fire Protection and Safety Management, and Engineering
Management.  Ph.D. programs are available in Civil Engineering,
Electrical Engineering, and Mechanical Engineering; as well as an
interdisciplinary Ph.D. in Infrastructure and Environmental Systems. 
For details on the graduate programs, refer to the *UNC Charlotte
Graduate Catalog.*

The College of Engineering consists of the following departments:

-   **Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering**

-   **Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering**

-   **Department of Engineering Technology and Construction Management**

-   **Department of Industrial and Systems Engineering**

-   **Department of Mechanical Engineering and Engineering Science**

## Degree Programs

### Engineering Programs

The Baccalaureate programs in engineering offer professional engineering
education that can be used as the foundation for different career
objectives: workforce ready professional engineers in industry,
business, or consulting; graduate study preparing for careers in
research, development, or teaching; and a more general and liberal
engineering education with the objective of keeping a variety of career
paths open.  

The course of study includes the humanities, social sciences, physical
sciences, mathematics, and engineering sciences and design.  The student
expecting to accept employment in industry may emphasize the engineering
design and engineering science aspects of a program, while the student
preparing for graduate study might emphasize the mathematics and science
aspects.  Some graduates take on executive and management
responsibilities in industries and firms that are based upon engineering
products and services.  These students may choose to construct an
elective option in their program to include economics and
business-related courses that strengthen their communications and other
non-technical skills.

Engineering students are strongly encouraged to pursue the requirements
for registration as a Professional Engineer (PE).  The first step in the
registration process is the successful completion of the Fundamentals of
Engineering (FE) Examination.  Students are encouraged to take this
examination during their Senior year.  Additional requirements for
professional licensure subsequent to graduation include the accumulation
of at least four-years of progressive engineering experience and
successful completion of the Professional Engineer Examination (PE
Exam).  Students who complete the Cooperative Education Program or who
complete their master's degree only need three years of progressive
engineering experience to be eligible to take the PE Exam in North
Carolina.

All program-level Admission and Progression Requirements are in addition
to the University of North Carolina at Charlotte Admissions
Requirements.

#### Majors

-   Bachelor of Science in Civil Engineering (B.S.C.E.)

-   Bachelor of Science in Electrical Engineering (B.S.E.E.)

-   Bachelor of Science in Environmental Engineering (B.S.)

-   Bachelor of Science in Computer Engineering (B.S.CP.E.)

-   Bachelor of Science in Mechanical Engineering (B.S.M.E.)

-   Bachelor of Science in Systems Engineering (B.S.S.E.)

#### Minors

-   Minor in Electrical Engineering

-   Minor in Computer Engineering

-   Minor in Mechanical Engineering

-   Minor in Occupational Safety

#### Honors Programs

-   Engineering, Honors Program

#### Graduate Early Entry Programs

-   Applied Energy and Electromechanical Engineering, M.S., Early Entry 

-   Civil Engineering, M.S., Early Entry 

-   Computer Engineering, M.S., Early Entry 

-   Construction and Facilities Engineering, M.S., Early Entry

-   Electrical Engineering, M.S. or Ph.D., Early Entry 

-   Engineering Management, M.S., Early Entry 

-   Fire Protection and Safety Management, M.S., Early Entry 

-   Mechanical Engineering, M.S., Early Entry 

-   Optical Science and Engineering, M.S. or Ph.D., Early Entry

### Engineering Technology Programs

Engineering technology is the profession in which knowledge of
mathematics and natural sciences gained through higher education,
experience, and practice is devoted primarily to the implementation and
extension of existing technology for the benefit of humanity. 
Engineering technology education focuses on the applied aspects of
science and engineering aimed at preparing graduates for practice in the
technological spectrum closest to product improvement, manufacturing,
construction, and engineering operational functions.

Engineering technology programs are characterized by a focus on
application and practice with an approximately equal mix of theory,
practice, and laboratory experience.  

Graduates of the engineering technology programs are recruited by most
major technological companies in the U.S.  They are employed across the
technological spectrum but are best suited to areas that deal with
application, implementation, production, and construction.  Technical
sales and customer service fields also account for many placements.

Engineering technology students are encouraged to pursue the
requirements for registration as a Professional Engineer.  The first
step in the registration process is the successful completion of the
Fundamentals of Engineering (FE) Examination.  Students are encouraged
to take this examination during their Senior year.  Additional
requirements for professional licensure following graduation include the
accumulation of at least eight years of progressive experience and
successful completion of the Professional Engineer Examination (PE
Exam).  Students who complete the Cooperative Education Program or who
complete their master's degree only need seven years of progressive
engineering experience to be eligible to take the PE Exam in North
Carolina. 

#### Majors

-   Bachelor of Science in Engineering Technology (BSET)

#### Graduate Early Entry Programs

-   Applied Energy and Electromechanical Engineering, M.S., Early Entry

### Construction Management Program

Construction management provides the education necessary for entry into
the construction industry in a variety of careers in the residential,
commercial, and industrial sectors, as well as infrastructure, and heavy
horizontal construction.  Related careers in real estate and land
development, infrastructure development, code enforcement, and insurance
are also career options.  

The program is enhanced by a business/management core that includes
courses in statistics, computer applications, economics, accounting,
engineering economics, business management, business law, finance, and
construction law.  The Construction Management program shares a common
lower division (First-Year and Second-Year) curriculum with the Civil
Engineering Technology Program.  This provides a two-year opportunity to
determine which program best fits the desired academic objective and
allows students who are interested to complete a double major in both
Construction Management and Civil Engineering Technology.

#### Majors

-   Bachelor of Science in Construction Management (BSCM)

#### Graduate Early Entry Programs

-   Construction and Facilities Engineering, M.S., Early Entry
