# Electrical Engineering

## Bachelor of Science in Electrical Engineering (B.S.E.E.)

A Major in Electrical Engineering leading to the B.S.E.E. degree consists of a total of 120 credit hours.

The Bachelor of Science in Electrical Engineering (B.S.E.E.) degree covers fundamental concepts that lead to an understanding of electrical and electronic systems and their applications.

Emphasis is placed on the utilization of computers throughout the curriculum. Graduates have a wide range of job opportunities as power engineers, communication engineers, test engineers, network engineers, control engineers, project engineers, robotic system engineers, optoelectronic engineers, application engineers, analog engineers, medical product engineers, and process engineers

## Admission Requirements

### First-Year Students

First-year admission is competitive, based upon an overall evaluation of the high school record, with particular emphasis on advanced courses in math and science. See University Admission Requirements ​for a detailed description of the criteria.

First-Year students may either select a major at the time of their application or may choose to be Engineering-undeclared. All First-Year College of Engineering students will take a common set of courses called the Common First Year. Towards the end of their first year, having completed all progression requirements, students will declare or confirm their Engineering Major for the second through fourth years.  This selection may be the major they initially indicated or any other engineering major for which they meet the progression requirements.

### Transfers

All transfer students will be evaluated for placement into a departmental Program or the Common First Year program based on the evaluation of their transfer credits (consistent with the North Carolina articulation agreements).  

- See University Admission Requirements​  
- Minimum GPA:  2.50 (2.80 for Mechanical Engineering)
- Pre-Major/Prerequisite Courses:  
  - Engineering Programs: Calculus I course (equivalent to MATH 1241), with a grade of C or above
  - Engineering Technology Programs: Pre-calculus course (equivalent to MATH 1103) or higher, with a grade of C or above
- Transferable Credit Hours: Minimum of 24

Transfers from an ABET-accredited engineering program who do not meet the GPA requirement may be admitted upon the recommendation of the chair of the major department.

### Currently Enrolled Students

### Changes of Major Into a Program in the College of Engineering

First-time college students who seek eligibility for a change of major from a non-engineering major into an engineering program are required to:

- Complete the First-Year curriculum of the program of interest.
- Have no more than two attempts per course, including withdrawing from a course with a grade of W.
- Achieve an overall GPA of 2.50 (2.80 for Mechanical Engineering).

### Students Seeking Eligibility for a Change of Major

- Should continue to be advised by their current advisor.
- Should focus on successfully completing courses that count towards the program of interest and not rely on grades in unrelated courses to elevate the GPA.
- Are not permitted to enroll in Sophomore engineering courses.
- May request authorization to enroll in ENGR 1201, ETGR 1201 or ETGR 1101 via a UCOL advisor or via a request to the College of Engineering Advising department, if not in UCOL.
- May request authorization to enroll in ENGR 1202 via a UCOL advisor or via a request to an advisor in the program of interest, if not in UCOL.

### Transfers Seeking Eligibility for a Change of Major

Students who transfer to Charlotte into a non-engineering major and have not met the Transfer Requirements for a given engineering program are not guaranteed to be considered for a change of major. Representatives of the program of interest make decisions on a student's eligibility to pursue a change of major based on a holistic review of a student's entire academic record, including grades earned at other institutions. A record of unsuccessful attempts in courses will weigh negatively on such decisions. If transfer students are allowed to pursue eligibility for a change of major to a given program, they will be required to:

- Complete the First-Year curriculum of the program of interest.
- Have no more than two attempts per course including withdrawing from a course with a grade of W.
- Achieve an overall GPA of 2.50 (2.80 for Mechanical Engineering).
- Complete at least 12 credits of courses at Charlotte, including at least four courses in math, science and/or engineering.

### Current UNC Charlotte Students Seeking Eligibility for a Change of Major

Current UNC Charlotte students who are interested in changing majors to Engineering Technology or Construction Management (ETCM) must meet major-specific requirements in order to declare a major. Please visit the ETCM department at http://et.charlotte.edu/prospective-students/change-majors for more information on the change of major process. Upon satisfying all of the major-specific requirements, students may request admission to an ETCM program by scheduling an appointment with a departmental advisor of the given program.

## Degree Requirements

### General Education Courses (31-32 credit hours)

For details on required courses, refer to the General Education Program. Total hours to satisfy General Education Requirements may vary as some general education requirements may be double-counted in the major with departmental approval. Please see your advisor for information.

### Pre-Major Courses (14 credit hours)

ENGR 1201 - Introduction to Engineering Practices and Principles I (2)  
ENGR 1202 - Introduction to Engineering Practices and Principles II (2)  
MATH 1241 - Calculus I (3)  
MATH 1242 - Calculus II (3)  
PHYS 2101 - Physics for Science and Engineering I (3)  
PHYS 2101L - Physics for Science and Engineering I Lab (1)  

### Major Courses (51 credit hours)

ECGR 2103 - Computer Utilization in C++ (3)  
ECGR 2111 - Network Theory I (3)  
ECGR 2112 - Network Theory II (3)  
ECGR 2155 - Instrumentation and Networks Laboratory (1)*  
ECGR 2156 - Logic and Networks Laboratory (1)*  
ECGR 2181 