# BSET in Mechanical Engineering Technology with Concentration in Applied Energy

A Concentration in Applied Energy is available to BSET in Mechanical Engineering Technology students.

## Admission Requirements

Students for this degree may enter degree programs in the Department of Engineering Technology and Construction Management as First-Year students or as transfer students.

### First-Year Students

First-year admission is competitive, based upon an overall evaluation of the high school record, with particular emphasis on advanced courses in math and science. See University Admission Requirements ​for a detailed description of the criteria.

First-Year students may either select a major at the time of their application or may choose to be Engineering-undeclared. All First-Year College of Engineering students will take a common set of courses called the Common First Year. Towards the end of their first year, having completed all progression requirements, students will declare or confirm their Engineering Major for the second through fourth years.  This selection may be the major they initially indicated or any other engineering major for which they meet the progression requirements.

### Transfers

All transfer students will be evaluated for placement into a departmental Program or the Common First Year program based on the evaluation of their transfer credits (consistent with the North Carolina articulation agreements).  

-   See University Admission Requirements​  

-   Minimum GPA:  2.50 (2.80 for Mechanical Engineering)

-   Pre-Major/Prerequisite Courses:  

-   Engineering Programs: Calculus I course (equivalent to MATH 1241), with a grade of C or above

-   Engineering Technology Programs: Pre-calculus course (equivalent to MATH 1103) or higher, with a grade of C or above

-   Transferable Credit Hours: Minimum of 24

Transfers from an ABET-accredited engineering program who do not

meet the GPA requirement may be admitted upon the recommendation of the chair of the major department.

### Currently Enrolled Students

Current UNC Charlotte students who wish to change or declare their major to Mechanical Engineering Technology, must first satisfy the following requirements in order to be considered eligible for admission:

1.  Complete MATH 1103 or higher with a grade of C or better.

2.  Complete PHYS 1101 and PHYS 1101L or higher Physics course with a grade of C or better.

3.  Earn a minimum 2.20 cumulative GPA.

4.  Pass all currently attempted required courses within three attempts including withdrawing from a course with a grade of W.

5.  Students currently enrolled in a required course for a second time must wait until grades are posted before declaring an ETCM major. A student will not be admitted to the major unless the course is passed within three attempts.

6.  Complete at least one the following courses for their desired major:

    -    ETME 1111, ETME 1112, or ETGR 2101 with a grade of C or better

Upon satisfying all of the above requirements, students may request admission to an ETCM program by submitting the [Change of Major Form](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSc7L6QSOgR_dTpDhSMThVZX_JicyOFjlZRc7Z61IBeJ9PwmBA/viewform?usp=sf_link). Completion of the minimum requirements does not guarantee acceptance into a program.

## Course Requirements

Course requirements correspond to the mode of admission for each student as outlined hereafter.

-   **Entering First-Year Students:** Students admitted as First-Year students complete the appropriate four-year curriculum for the program into which they were admitted.

-   **Transfer students not holding an appropriate AAS degree:** Transfer students not holding an appropriate AAS degree must complete the remaining coursework outlined for the respective four-year curriculum into which they were admitted after evaluation and application of any transfer credit.

-   **Transfer students holding an appropriate AAS degree:** Transfer students with an appropriate Associate of Applied Science (AAS) degree as defined previously under Admission Requirements may begin the program in the Junior year with up to 64 transfer credit hours awarded. Prerequisites for students holding an AAS degree from a community or technical college are listed below.

### Prerequisite Courses for AAS Transfers

Students transferring with an AAS degree must have satisfactorily completed the following subjects in their two-year program:

-   English Composition, Technical Writing, and/or Public Speaking (3 credit hours)

-   Precalculus (3 credit hours)

-   Differential and Integral Calculus (6 credit hours)

-   Physics I and II (each with lab) (8 credit hours)

-   Chemistry (3 credit hours)

-   Technical Courses in Major Area (up to 41 credit hours)

    -   Parametric Solid Modeling

    -   Manufacturing Processes

    -   Metallurgy or Engineering Materials

    -   Statics

    -   Kinematics or Mechanisms

    -   DC Circuits

    -   Machine Shop Practices with Lab

### Remediation of Academic Entrance Requirements for AAS Transfer Students

In addition to University and College of Engineering requirements, an AAS transfer student who is admitted to any BSET program without meeting ALL published admission requirements is expected to remove all admission deficiencies within one year. Violators are subject to discontinuance and enrollment in Senior-level coursework is prohibited until all deficiencies are removed.

## Degree Requirements

The BSET in Mechanical Engineering Technology with Concentration in Applied Energy program consists of 120 credit hours.

### General Education Courses (31-32 credit hours)

For details on required courses, refer to the General Education Program. Total hours to satisfy General Education Requirements may vary as some general education requirements may be double-counted in the major with departmental approval. Please see your advisor for information.

### Mathematics and Science Foundation Courses (26 credit hours)

CHEM 1251 - General Chemistry I (3)

or  MEGR 1100 - Foundations of Math and Science for Engineers (4)

ETGR 2272 - Engineering Analysis II (3) \*

or  MATH 1242 - Calculus II (3) \*

ETGR 3171 - Engineering Analysis III (3)

or  ETGR 4272 - Engineering Analysis IV (3)

MATH 1103 - Precalculus Mathematics for Science and Engineering (3) \*

MATH 1121 - Calculus for Engineering Technology (3) \*

or  MATH 1241 - Calculus I (3) \*

PHYS 1101 - Introductory Physics I (3) \*

or  PHYS 2101 - Physics for Science and Engineering I (3) \*

PHYS 1101L - Introductory Physics I Laboratory (1) \*

or  PHYS 2101L - Physics for Science and Engineering I Laboratory (1) \*

PHYS 1102 - Introductory Physics II (3) \*

or  PHYS 2102 - Physics for Science and Engineering II (3) \*

PHYS 1102L - Introductory Physics II Laboratory (1) \*

or  PHYS 2102L - Physics for Science and Engineering II Laboratory (1) \*

STAT 1220 - Elements of Statistics I (BUSN) (3)

### Major Courses (64 credit hours)

ELET 2241 - Instrumentation and Controls (3)

*Take one of the following:*

ENGR 1201 - Introduction to Engineering Practices and Principles I (2) \*

ETGR 1201 - Introduction to Engineering Technology (2) \*

*or both of the following:*

ETGR 1101 - Introduction to Engineering Technology and Construction Management (1) \*

and ETGR 1100L - Engineering Technology Computer Applications Laboratory (1) \*

ETEL 2101 - Circuit Fundamentals (3)

or  ETGR 2106 - Electronic Circuits and Devices (3)

ETGR 2101 - Applied Mechanics I (3) \*

ETGR 3222 - Engineering Economics (3)

ETGR 3295 - Multidisciplinary Professional Development (1)

ETGR 4100 - Capstone Design Project I (2)

ETGR 4200 - Capstone Design Project II (2)

ETME 1111 - CAD Modeling I (3) \*

ETME 1112 - CAD Modeling II (3) \*

ETME 2100 - Sophomore Design Practicum (2)

ETME 2100L - Sophomore Design Practicum Laboratory (1)

ETME 2102 - Mechanisms (3)

ETME 2141 - Applied Engineering Materials (3)

ETME 2142 - Applied Manufacturing (3)

ETME 3100 - Junior Design Practicum (3)

ETME 3100L - Junior Design Practicum Laboratory (1)

ETME 3113 - Dynamics (3)

ETME 3123 - Strength of Materials (3)

ETME 3123L - Stress Analysis Laboratory (1)

ETME 3133 - Fluid Mechanics (3)

ETME 3150 - Applied CAD Modeling and Simulation (3)

ETME 3213 - Machine Design I (3)

ETME 3250 - Principles of Thermal Engineering (3)

ETME 4250 - Thermal Engineering Applications (3)

ETME 4250L - Thermal Fluids Laboratory (1)

### Concentration Courses (12 credit hours)

*Select four of the following:*

AEEE 4000 - Special Topics (1 to 4)

AEEE 4140 - Energy Management (3)

AEEE 4250 - Analysis of Renewable Energy Systems (3)

AEEE 4275 - Building Environmental Systems (3)

ETEL 3231 - Power, Machines, and Energy (3)

SEGR 4961 - Introduction to Energy Systems (3) *(with approval)*

SEGR 4962 - Energy Markets (3) *(with approval)*

### Grade Requirements

\*Note: Courses marked with \* must be completed with a grade of C or above.

## Degree Total = 120 Credit Hours

## Progression Requirements

### First-Year Students

All First-Year students, early college students, and transfer students with only one semester at another institution are initially advised by a central office within the College of Engineering. Students must satisfy the following requirements in order to progress in the curriculum and matric