# Bachelor of Science in Systems Engineering (B.S.S.E.) *with Concentration in Energy Systems*

## Admission Requirements

### First-Year Students

First-year admission is competitive, based upon an overall evaluation of the high school record, with particular emphasis on advanced courses in math and science. See University Admission Requirements ​for a detailed description of the criteria.

First-Year students may either select a major at the time of their application or may choose to be Engineering-undeclared. All First-Year College of Engineering students will take a common set of courses called the Common First Year. Towards the end of their first year, having completed all progression requirements, students will declare or confirm their Engineering Major for the second through fourth years.  This selection may be the major they initially indicated or any other engineering major for which they meet the progression requirements.

### Transfers

All transfer students will be evaluated for placement into a departmental Program or the Common First Year program based on the evaluation of their transfer credits (consistent with the North Carolina articulation agreements).  

-   See University Admission Requirements​  

-   Minimum GPA:  2.50 (2.80 for Mechanical Engineering)

-   Pre-Major/Prerequisite Courses:  

-   Engineering Programs: Calculus I course (equivalent to MATH 1241), with a grade of C or above

-   Engineering Technology Programs: Pre-calculus course (equivalent to MATH 1103) or higher, with a grade of C or above

-   Transferable Credit Hours: Minimum of 24

Transfers from an ABET-accredited engineering program who do not meet the GPA requirement may be admitted upon the recommendation of the chair of the major department.

### Currently Enrolled Students

In order to remain in the concentration, a minimum overall GPA of 3.0 must be maintained.

### Changes of Major Into a Program in the College of Engineering

First-time college students who seek eligibility for a change of major from a non-engineering major into an engineering program are required to:

-   Complete the First-Year curriculum of the program of interest.

-   Have no more than two attempts per course, including withdrawing from a course with a grade of W.

-   Achieve an overall GPA of 2.50 (2.80 for Mechanical Engineering).

### Students Seeking Eligibility for a Change of Major

-   Should continue to be advised by their current advisor.

-   Should focus on successfully completing courses that count towards the program of interest and not rely on grades in unrelated courses to elevate the GPA.

-   Are not permitted to enroll in Sophomore engineering courses.

-   May request authorization to enroll in ENGR 1201, ETGR 1201 or ETGR 1101 via a UCOL advisor or via a request to the College of Engineering Advising department, if not in UCOL.

-   May request authorization to enroll in ENGR 1202 via a UCOL advisor or via a request to an advisor in the program of interest, if not in UCOL.

### Transfers Seeking Eligibility for a Change of Major

Students who transfer to Charlotte into a non-engineering major and have not met the Transfer Requirements for a given engineering program are not guaranteed to be considered for a change of major. Representatives of the program of interest make decisions on a student's eligibility to pursue a change of major based on a holistic review of a student's entire academic record, including grades earned at other institutions. A record of unsuccessful attempts in courses will weigh negatively on such decisions. If transfer students are allowed to pursue eligibility for a change of major to a given program, they will be required to:

-   Complete the First-Year curriculum of the program of interest.

-   Have no more than two attempts per course including withdrawing from a course with a grade of W.

-   Achieve an overall GPA of 2.50 (2.80 for Mechanical Engineering).

-   Complete at least 12 credits of courses at Charlotte, including at least four courses in math, science and/or engineering.

### Current UNC Charlotte Students Seeking Eligibility for a Change of Major

Current UNC Charlotte students who are interested in changing majors to Engineering Technology or Construction Management (ETCM) must meet major-specific requirements in order to declare a major. Please visit the ETCM department at http://et.charlotte.edu/prospective-students/change-majors for more information on the change of major process. Upon satisfying all of the major-specific requirements, students may request admission to an ETCM program by scheduling an appointment with a departmental advisor of the given program.

## Degree Requirements

A Major in Systems Engineering leading to the BSSE degree consists of 120 credit hours. BSSE students can select this optional concentration by the end of their Sophomore year.

### General Education Courses (31-32 credit hours)

For details on required courses, refer to the General Education Program. Total hours to satisfy General Education Requirements may vary as some general education requirements may be double-counted in the major with departmental approval. Please see your advisor for information.

### Major Courses (48 credit hours)

ENGR 1201 -- Introduction to Engineering Practices and Principles I (2)

ENGR 1201 - Introduction to Engineering Practices and Principles II (2)

ENGR 3295 -- Multidisciplinary Professional Development (1)

SEGR 2105 - Computational Methods for Systems Engineering I (3)

SEGR 2106 - Engineering Economics Analysis (3)

SEGR 2110 - Systems Engineering Concepts (3)

SEGR 3102 - Systems Stimulation, Modeling, and Analysis (3)

SEGR 3105 - Computational Methods for Systems Engineering II (3)

SEGR 3107 - Decision and Risk Analysis (3)

SEGR 3110 - System Design and Deployment (3)

SEGR 3111 - Project Management (3)

SEGR 3201 - Operations Research I: Deterministic Models (3)

SEGR 3202 - Operations Research II: Stochastic Models (3)

SEGR 3290 - Systems Design Project I (2)

SEGR 3291 - Systems Design Project II (2)

SEGR 4114 - Production Control Systems (3)

SEGR 4141 - Engineering Experimental Design (3)

SEGR 4170 - Total Quality Systems (3)

### Foundation Courses (30 credit hours)

MATH 1241 -- Calculus I (3)

MATH 1242 -- Calculus II (3)

MATH 2241 -- Calculus III (3)

MATH 2164 - Matrices and Linear Algebra (3)

MATH 2171 - Differential Equations (3)

CHEM 1251 -- General Chemistry I (3)

CHEM 1251L -- General Chemistry I Lab (1)

PHYS 2101 -- Physics for Science and Engineering I (3)

PHYS 2101L -- Physics for Science and Engineering Lab (1)

PHYS 2102 - Physics for Science and Engineering II (3)

PHYS 2102L - Physics for Science and Engineering II Lab (1)

STAT 3128 - Probability and Statistics for Engineers (3)

### Restricted Elective Courses (12 credit hours)

***Physical Science Elective Course (3 credit hours)***

Students must select one of the following physical science courses to fulfill the requirements for the First-Year engineering curriculum. It must complement the student's overall educational plan. Other courses with significant physical science content that are not listed may fulfill the requirement, but require the approval of the Undergraduate Program Director.

BIOL 1110 - Principles of Biology I (3)

BIOL 2120 - General Biology I (3)

CHEM 1200 - Fundamentals of Chemistry (3)

ESCI 1101 - Earth Sciences-Geography (3)

GEOL 1200 - Physical Geology (3)

PHYS 1101 - Introductory Physics I (3)

PHYS 1102 - Introductory Physics II (3)

PHYS 1130 - Introduction to Astronomy (3)

PHYS 1201 - Sports and Physics (3)

PHYS 1202 - Introduction to Physics in Medicine (3)

PHYS 1203 - Physics of Music (3)

***Technical Elective Courses (9 credit hours)***

BSSE students must complete 9 credit hours of technical elective courses approved by their advisor to fulfill the requirements for their BSSE degree. The technical electives are meant to both broaden the student's technical capabilities and complement the student's core BSSE course requirements. Technical elective courses cannot be used to fulfill both the Technical Elective requirements and the Additional Technical Elective requirements (i.e., no double counting of course credit hours toward the BSSE degree). In addition to SEGR courses, the courses below from outside the Department of Industrial and Systems Engineering are approved as technical elective courses. Please note that many of these courses may also have prerequisites.

Any SEGR course at the 2000-, 3000-, or 4000- level

ACCT 2121 - Principles of Accounting I (3)

ACCT 2122 - Principles of Accounting II (3)

CEGR 3122 - Structural Analysis (3)

CEGR 3141 - Introduction to Environmental Engineering (3)

CEGR 3153 - Transportation Laboratory (2)

CEGR 3155 - Environmental Laboratory (2)

CEGR 3161 - Transportation Engineering I (3)

CEGR 4108 - Finite Element Analysis and Applications (3)

CEGR 4161 - Advanced Traffic Engineering (3)

CEGR 4162 - Transportation Planning (3)

CEGR 4171 - Urban Public Transportation (3)

CEGR 4181 - Human Factors in Traffic Engineering (3)

CEGR 4262 - Traffic Engineering (3)

ECGR 2111 - Network Theory I (3)

ECGR 2112 - Network Theory II (3)

ECGR 2155 - Instrumentation and Networks Laboratory (1)

ECGR 2156 - Logic and Networks Laboratory (1)

ECGR 2161 - Basic Electrical Engineering I (3)

ECGR 2181 - Logic Systems Design (3)

ECGR 3123 - Data Communications and Networking (3)

ECGR 3131 - Fundamentals of Electronics and Semiconductors (3)

ECON 2102 - Principles of Economics - Micro (3)

ECON 3125 - Managerial Economics (3)

ECON 4181 - Energy and Environmental Economics (3)

ESCI 3180 - Environmental Impact Analysis (3)

FINN 3120 - Financial Management (3)

FINN 3220 - Financial Analysis (3)

FINN 3223 - International Financial Management (3)

FINN 3271 - Principles of Risk Management and Insurance (3)

FINN 4275 - Corporate Risk Management (3)

GEOG 4103 - Computer Programming for GIS Applications (3)

GEOG 4110 - GIS for Non-Majors (3)

GEOG 4130 - Advanced Geographic Information Systems (4)

GEOG 4140 - Geographic Information Techniques for Community Planning (4)

GEOG 4155 - Retail Location (3)

GEOG 4210 - Urban Planning Methods (3)

GEOG 4255 - Applied Population Analysis (3)

GEOG 4260 - Transportation Policy Formulation (3)

GEOG 4265 - Transportation Analysis Methods (3)

INFO 2130 - Introduction to Business Computing (3)

INFO 2231 - Introduction to Business Programming (3)

INFO 3130 - Management Information Systems (3)

INFO 3232 - International Information Systems Management (3)

INFO 3233 - Data and Information Management (3)

ITCS 4122 - Visual Analytics (3)

ITCS 4156 - Introduction to Machine Learning (3)

MATH 2342 - Data Analysis and Probability (3)

MATH 3116 - Graph Theory (3)

MATH 3166 - Combinatorics (3)

MATH 3176 - Numerical Analysis (3)

MATH 3228 - Actuarial Science IB (3)

MATH 3229 - Actuarial Science IIA (3)

MATH 4128 - Risk Theory (3)

MEGR 2141 - Engineering Mechanics I (3)

MEGR 2144 - Introduction to Solid Mechanics (3)

MEGR 2180 - Manufacturing Systems (3)

MEGR 3111 - Thermodynamics I (3)

MEGR 3112 - Thermodynamics II (3)

MEGR 3116 - Introduction to Heat Transfer (3)

MEGR 3121 - Dynamics Systems I (3)

MEGR 3122 - Dynamic Systems II (3)

MEGR 3161 - Introduction to Engineering Materials (3)

MEGR 3162 - Mechanical Behavior and Strengthening of Solids (3)

MEGR 3171 - Introduction to Measurements and Instrumentation (2)

MEGR 3171L - Instrumentation Laboratory (2)

MEGR 3225 - Introduction to Finite Element Analysis (3)

MEGR 3282 - Statistical Process Control and Metrology (3)

MEGR 4127 - Introduction to Robotics (3)

MGMT 3140 - Management and Organizational Behavior (3)

MGMT 3241 - Acquiring and Maintaining Talent (3)

MGMT 3260 - Managerial Communication (3)

MGMT 3274 - International Business Processes and Problems (3)

MKTG 3110 - Marketing Concepts (3)

OPER 3100 - Operations Management (3)

OPER 3204 - Management of Service and Project Operations (3)

OPER 3208 - Supply Chain Management (3)

OPRS 4113 - Game Theory (3)

OPRS 4114 - Dynamic Programming (3)

STAT 3150 - Time Series Analysis (3)

STAT 3160 - Applied Multivariate Analysis (3)

STAT 4116 - Statistical Computing (3)

### Concentration Courses (12 credit hours)

***Elective Courses (9 credit hours)***

*Select three of the following:*

SEGR 4961 - Introduction to Energy Systems (3)

SEGR 4962 - Energy Markets (3)

SEGR 4963 - Energy Systems Planning (3)

SEGR 4964 - Case Studies in the Energy Industry (3)

***Elective Course (3 credit hours)***

*Select one of the following not already taken from above list:*

SEGR 4201 - Fundamentals of Deterministic System Analysis (3)

SEGR 4202 - Fundamentals of Stochastic System Analysis (3)

SEGR 4203 - Fundamentals of Engineering Management (3)

SEGR 4961 - Introduction to Energy Systems (3)

SEGR 4962 - Energy Markets (3)

SEGR 4963 - Energy Systems Planning (3)

SEGR 4964 - Case Studies in the Energy Industry (3)

### Unrestricted Elective Courses

As needed to complete the credit hours required for graduation.

## Degree Total = 120 credit hours

## Progression Requirements

### First-Year Requirements

All new First-Year students, early college students, and transfer students with only one semester at another institution are initially advised by a central office within the College of Engineering. Students must satisfy the following requirements in order to progress in the curriculum and matriculate to their major department.

-   Follow the advice and recommendations of their faculty advisors.

-   Follow all prerequisite, corequisite, and progression requirements of their program.

-   Earn at least a 2.00 GPA in the first semester.

-   Complete all core courses in the First-Year curriculum with grades of C or above. Core courses include: MATH 1241 and MATH 1242, PHYS 2101; CHEM 1251 or MEGR 1100 (MEGR majors); MATH 2164 and ECGR 2103 (CPGR/EEGR Majors); MATH 2164 (SEGR Majors).

-   Pass all courses within two attempts, including withdrawing from a course with a grade of W.

-   Complete the First-Year curriculum within four regular semesters.

-   Earn a 2.50 cumulative GPA upon completion of the First-Year curriculum.

### Sophomore Through Senior Year Requirements

-   Maintain an overall GPA of 2.00 in the University.

-   Maintain a major cumulative GPA of 2.00 for all courses in the departmental curriculum. Failure to meet this requirement for two consecutive semesters will result in not being permitted to enroll in College of Engineering courses.

-   Pass all courses in the curriculum within two attempts, including withdrawing from a course with a grade of W.

An undergraduate student who fails to satisfy one or more of the progression requirements stated above, but who nonetheless meets the conditions for continued enrollment in the University, will be ineligible to re-enroll in the College of Engineering unless an appeal is accepted by the College of Engineering. If an appeal is accepted, requirements for continued enrollment appropriate to the individual situation are specified in a "Continuation Agreement" that is mutually agreed upon and signed by the student and their appropriate advisor.

A student who has been suspended by the University must follow University guidelines for appeal. Re-admission to the College of Engineering after a University suspension is not automatic. An application for re-admission must be made by the student and approved by the College/department. Students who are re-admitted by the College of Engineering after suspension by the University must meet requirements for continued enrollment appropriate to their individual situation. These requirements are specified in a "Continuation Agreement" that is mutually agreed upon and signed by the student and their appropriate advisor. The consequences of failure to meet the requirements of the agreement may be articulated in the agreement itself. However, if these consequences are not included in the agreement, failure to meet the requirements will automatically result in the student not being permitted to continue to enroll in College of Engineering courses.
